ADMINISTRATIVE DECISIONS (JUDICIAL REVIEW) ACT 1977 

ADMINISTRATIVE DECISIONS (JUDICIAL REVIEW) ACT 1977 
- TABLE OF PROVISIONS

1. Short title  
2. Commencement  
3. Interpretation  
3A. Certain legislation relating to Australian Capital Territory not to be enactment  
4. Act to operate notwithstanding anything in existing laws  
5. Applications for review of decisions  
6. Applications for review of conduct related to making of decisions  
7. Applications in respect of failures to make decisions  
8. Jurisdiction of Federal Court and Federal Circuit and Family Court of Australia (Division 2)  
9. Limitation of jurisdiction of State courts  
9A. Limitation of jurisdiction to review related criminal justice process decisions  
9B. Limitation of jurisdiction to review related civil proceeding decisions  
10. Rights conferred by this Act to be additional to other rights  
11. Manner of making applications  
12. Application to be made a party to a proceeding  
13. Reasons for decision may be obtained  
13A. Certain information not required to be disclosed  
14. Certification by Attorney - General concerning the disclosure of information  
15. Stay of proceedings--Federal Court  
15A. Stay of proceedings--Federal Circuit and Family Court of Australia (Division 2)  
16. Powers of the Federal Court and the Federal Circuit and Family Court of Australia (Division 2) in respect of applications for order of review  
17. Change in person holding, or performing the duties of, an office  
18. Intervention by Attorney - General  
18A. Transfer of proceedings to Federal Circuit and Family Court of Australia (Division 1)  
19. Act not to apply in relation to certain decisions  
19A. Act to apply in relation to certain Northern Territory laws  
19B. Regulations may amend Schedule 3  
20. Regulations  
SCHEDULE 1 Classes of decisions that are not decisions to which this Act applies 
SCHEDULE 2 Classes of decisions that are not decisions to which section 13 applies 
SCHEDULE 3 State, ACT and NT Acts, and parts of such Acts, that are enactments for the purposes of this Act 

An Act relating to the Review on Questions of Law of certain Administrative Decisions
- LONG TITLE
An Act relating to the Review on Questions of Law of certain Administrative Decisions

ADMINISTRATIVE DECISIONS (JUDICIAL REVIEW) ACT 1977
- SECT 1
Short title

  This Act may be cited as the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Act 1977.

ADMINISTRATIVE DECISIONS (JUDICIAL REVIEW) ACT 1977
- SECT 2
Commencement

  This Act shall come into operation on a date to be fixed by Proclamation.

ADMINISTRATIVE DECISIONS (JUDICIAL REVIEW) ACT 1977
- SECT 3
Interpretation

 (1) In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears:
"ACT enactment" means an enactment as defined by section 3 of the Australian Capital Territory (Self -Government) Act 1988.
"Commonwealth authority" means an authority or other body (whether incorporated or not) that is established or continued in existence by or under an Act.
"decision to which this Act applies" means a decision of an administrative character made, proposed to be made, or required to be made (whether in the exercise of a discretion or not and whether before or after the commencement of this definition):
 (a) under an enactment referred to in paragraph  (a), (b), (c), (d) or (e) of the definition of enactment; or
 (b) by a Commonwealth authority or an officer of the Commonwealth under an enactment referred to in paragraph  (ca), (cb) or (f) of the definition of enactment;
other than:
 (c) a decision by the Governor -General; or
 (d) a decision included in any of the classes of decisions set out in Schedule  1.
Note: Regulations for the purposes of section 19 can declare that decisions that are covered by this definition are not subject to judicial review under this Act.
"duty" includes a duty imposed on a person in his or her capacity as an officer or employee of the Crown.
"enactment" means:
 (a) an Act, other than:
 (i) the Commonwealth Places (Application of Laws) Act 1970; or
 (ii) the Northern Territory (Self-Government) Act 1978; or
 (iii) an Act or part of an Act that is not an enactment because of section  3A (certain legislation relating to the ACT); or
 (b) an Ordinance of a Territory other than the Australian Capital Territory or the Northern Territory; or
 (c) an instrument (including rules, regulations or by -laws) made under such an Act or under such an Ordinance, other than any such instrument that is not an enactment because of section 3A; or
 (ca) an Act of a State, the Australian Capital Territory or the Northern Territory, or a part of such an Act, described in Schedule  3; or
 (cb) an instrument (including rules, regulations or by -laws) made under an Act or part of an Act covered by paragraph (ca); or
 (d) any other law, or a part of a law, of the Northern Territory declared by the regulations, in accordance with section  19A, to be an enactment for the purposes of this Act; or
 (e) a law continued in force in Norfolk Island by section  16 or 16A of the Norfolk Island Act 1979 (including such a law as amended in accordance with section 17 of that Act); or
 (f) a law of a State or Territory applied in the Jervis Bay Territory or an external Territory;
and, for the purposes of paragraph (a), (b), (c), (ca), (cb), (e) or (f), includes a part of an enactment.
Note: Regulations for the purposes of section 19B can amend Schedule 3 (see section  19B).
"failure", in relation to the making of a decision, includes a refusal to make the decision.
"Federal Circuit and Family Court of Australia (Division 2) Rules" means the Rules of Court made under Chapter 4 of the Federal Circuit and Family Court of Australia Act 2021.
"Federal Court Rules" means the Rules of Court made under the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976.
"Finance Minister" means the Minister administering the Public Governance, Performance and Accountability Act 2013 .
"officer of the Commonwealth" has the same meaning as in paragraph 75(v) of the Constitution.
"order of review", in relation to a decision, in relation to conduct engaged in for the purpose of making a decision or in relation to a failure to make a decision, means an order on an application made under section  5, 6 or 7 in respect of the decision, conduct or failure.
"the Federal Court" means the Federal Court of Australia.
 (2) In this Act, a reference to the making of a decision includes a reference to:
 (a) making, suspending, revoking or refusing to make an order, award or determination;
 (b) giving, suspending, revoking or refusing to give a certificate, direction, approval, consent or permission;
 (c) issuing, suspending, revoking or refusing to issue a licence, authority or other instrument;
 (d) imposing a condition or restriction;
 (e) making a declaration, demand or requirement;
 (f) retaining, or refusing to deliver up, an article; or
 (g) doing or refusing to do any other act or thing;
and a reference to a failure to make a decision shall be construed accordingly.
 (3) Where provision is made by an enactment for the making of a report or recommendation before a decision is made in the exercise of a power under that enactment or under another law, the making of such a report or recommendation shall itself be deemed, for the purposes of this Act, to be the making of a decision.
 (4) In this Act:
 (a) a reference to a person aggrieved by a decision includes a reference:
 (i) to a person whose interests are adversely affected by the decision; or
 (ii) in the case of a decision by way of the making of a report or recommendation--to a person whose interests would be adversely affected if a decision were, or were not, made in accordance with the report or recommendation; and
 (b) a reference to a person aggrieved by conduct that has been, is being, or is proposed to be, engaged in for the purpose of making a decision or by a failure to make a decision includes a reference to a person whose interests are or would be adversely affected by the conduct or failure.
 (5) A reference in this Act to conduct engaged in for the purpose of making a decision includes a reference to the doing of any act or thing preparatory to the making of the decision, including the taking of evidence or the holding of an inquiry or investigation.
 (6) A document or a statement that is required by this Act to be furnished to a person or a notice that is required by this Act to be given to a person may be posted to the person by a pre -paid letter:
 (a) where the person has furnished an address at which documents may be served--to that address; or
 (b) where no such address has been furnished:
 (i) in the case of a person not being a company--to the address of his or her place of residence or business last known to the person posting the document, statement or notice; or
 (ii) in the case of a company--to the address of the registered office of the company;
and, if a document, statement or notice is so posted, then, for the purposes of this Act, the document or statement shall be deemed to be furnished, or the notice shall be deemed to be given, as the case may be, at the time when the document, statement or notice is so posted.
 (7) A reference in a Schedule  to this Act to another Act (including an Act of a State, the Australian Capital Territory or the Northern Territory) or a provision of another Act shall be read as including a reference to regulations or by -laws in force under that other Act or for the purposes of that provision, as the case may be.
 (7A) If an Act of a State, the Australian Capital Territory or the Northern Territory, or a part of such an Act, described in Schedule 3 applies all or part of another enactment or instrument as a law of the State or Territory, that other enactment or instrument, as so applying, is taken for the purposes of this Act to be included in the Act, or the part of the Act, of the State or Territory.
 (8) For the purposes of a Schedule  to this Act:
 (a) a decision made, proposed to be made, or required to be made, as the case may be, by a person acting as the delegate of another person, or by a person otherwise lawfully authorized to act on behalf of another person, shall be deemed to be a decision by that other person; and
 (b) a decision made, proposed to be made, or required to be made, as the case may be, by a person for the time being acting in, or performing any of the duties of, an office or appointment shall be deemed to be a decision by the holder of that office or appointment.
 (8A) For the purposes of a Schedule  to this Act, the question whether a body corporate is a subsidiary of another body corporate is to be determined in the same manner as that question is determined under the Corporations Act 2001.
 (9) In a Schedule to this Act:
"Service" includes the Australian Federal Police.
 (10) To avoid doubt, a reference in this Act (other than subsections  11(1), (2) and (3)) to an application made to the Federal Court includes, and is taken always to have included, a reference to an application that has come, or that came, before the Federal Court by way of:
 (a) a transfer from the Federal Circuit and Family Court of Australia (Division  2) by the Federal Court under section 32AC of the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976; or
 (b) a transfer by the Federal Circuit and Family Court of Australia (Division  2) to the Federal Court under section 153 of the Federal Circuit and Family Court of Australia Act 2021 that has been confirmed by the Federal Court under section  32AD of the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976.
 (11) To avoid doubt, a reference in this Act (other than subsections  11(1), (2) and (3)) to an application made to the Federal Circuit and Family Court of Australia (Division 2) includes, and is taken always to have included, a reference to an application that:
 (a) has come, or that came, before the Federal Circuit and Family Court of Australia (Division  2) by way of a transfer from the Federal Court under section 32AB of the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976 ; and
 (b) could have been made directly to the Federal Circuit and Family Court of Australia (Division  2).

ADMINISTRATIVE DECISIONS (JUDICIAL REVIEW) ACT 1977
- SECT 3A
Certain legislation relating to Australian Capital Territory not to be enactment

 (1) ACT enactments are not enactments except to the extent that they are covered by paragraph  (ca) or (cb) of the definition of enactment in subsection 3(1).
 (2) The Australian Capital Territory (Self-Government) Act 1988 and the Canberra Water Supply (Googong Dam) Act 1974 are not enactments.
 (3) Part IV, sections  29 and 30, subsection 63(2), section 66 and Division 5 of Part X of the Australian Capital Territory Planning and Land Management Act 1988 are not enactments.
 (4) Where the whole of an Act or Ordinance is not an enactment, an instrument made under it is not an enactment.
 (5) Where part of an Act or Ordinance is not an enactment, an instrument made under the Act or Ordinance, as the case may be, is not an enactment unless made for the purposes of the other part of the Act or Ordinance, as the case may be.

ADMINISTRATIVE DECISIONS (JUDICIAL REVIEW) ACT 1977
- SECT 4
Act to operate notwithstanding anything in existing laws

  This Act has effect notwithstanding anything contained in any law in force at the commencement of this Act.

ADMINISTRATIVE DECISIONS (JUDICIAL REVIEW) ACT 1977
- SECT 5
Applications for review of decisions

 (1) A person who is aggrieved by a decision to which this Act applies that is made after the commencement of this Act may apply to the Federal Court or the Federal Circuit and Family Court of Australia (Division  2) for an order of review in respect of the decision on any one or more of the following grounds:
 (a) that a breach of the rules of natural justice occurred in connection with the making of the decision;
 (b) that procedures that were required by law to be observed in connection with the making of the decision were not observed;
 (c) that the person who purported to make the decision did not have jurisdiction to make the decision;
 (d) that the decision was not authorized by the enactment in pursuance of which it was purported to be made;
 (e) that the making of the decision was an improper exercise of the power conferred by the enactment in pursuance of which it was purported to be made;
 (f) that the decision involved an error of law, whether or not the error appears on the record of the decision;
 (g) that the decision was induced or affected by fraud;
 (h) that there was no evidence or other material to justify the making of the decision;
 (j) that the decision was otherwise contrary to law.
 (2) The reference in paragraph  (1)(e) to an improper exercise of a power shall be construed as including a reference to:
 (a) taking an irrelevant consideration into account in the exercise of a power;
 (b) failing to take a relevant consideration into account in the exercise of a power;
 (c) an exercise of a power for a purpose other than a purpose for which the power is conferred;
 (d) an exercise of a discretionary power in bad faith;
 (e) an exercise of a personal discretionary power at the direction or behest of another person;
 (f) an exercise of a discretionary power in accordance with a rule or policy without regard to the merits of the particular case;
 (g) an exercise of a power that is so unreasonable that no reasonable person could have so exercised the power;
 (h) an exercise of a power in such a way that the result of the exercise of the power is uncertain; and
 (j) any other exercise of a power in a way that constitutes abuse of the power.
 (3) The ground specified in paragraph (1)(h) shall not be taken to be made out unless:
 (a) the person who made the decision was required by law to reach that decision only if a particular matter was established, and there was no evidence or other material (including facts of which he or she was entitled to take notice) from which he or she could reasonably be satisfied that the matter was established; or
 (b) the person who made the decision based the decision on the existence of a particular fact, and that fact did not exist.
